[APPLAUSE]
>> MIRA MURATI: Hi everyone.
Thank you, thank you.  It is
great to have you here today.
Today, I am going to talk about
three things.  That is it.  We
will start with why it is so
important to us to have a
product that we can make truly
available and broadly available
to everyone.  And we are always
trying to find out ways to
reduce friction.  So everyone
can use ChatGPT wherever they
are.  Today, we will be
releasing the desktop version
of ChatGPT and to make it
simpler to use and much more
natural as well.  But the big
news today is that we are
launching our new flagship
model.  And we are calling it
GPT-4o.  Best thing about
GPT-4o is it brain GPT-4
intelligence to everyone
including our free users.  We
will be showing some live demos
today to show the full extent
of the capabilities of our new
model.  And we will be rolling
them out over the next few
weeks.  So let's get started.
A very important part of our
mission is to be able to make
our advanced AI tools available
to everyone for free.  We think
it is very, very important that
people having for what the
technology can do.  We really
want to pair it with its
broader understanding.  And
were always finding ways to
reduce the friction.  Recently,
we made ChatGPT available
without the sign-up flow.
Today, we are also bringing the
best to ChatGPT.  We want you
to be able to use it wherever
you are.  As you can see it is
easy, simple, it integrates
very, very easily in your
workflow.  Along with it, we
have also refreshed the UI.  We
note that this model get more
and more complex.  But we want
the experience of interaction
to actually become more
natural, easy, and for you not
to focus on the UI at all but
focus on the collaboration of
ChatGPT.  And now the big news.
Today, we are releasing our
newest flagship model this is
GPT-4o.  [APPLAUSE]
GPT-4o provides GPT-4
intelligence but it is much
faster.  And it improves on its
capabilities across text,
vision, and audio.  For the
past couple of years, we have
been very focused on improving
the intelligence of this model
is.  And they have gotten
pretty good.  But this is the
first time that we are really
making a huge step forward when
it comes to the ease of use.
This is incredibly important
because we are looking at the
future of interaction between
ourselves and the machines.  We
think that GPT-4o is really
shifting the paradigm into the
future of collaboration.  It is
natural and far easier.  Making
this happen is actually quite
complex.  When we interact with
one another there is a lot of
stuff that we take for granted.
You know the ease of our
dialogue when we interrupt
another, the background noises,
the multiple voices in a
conversation and understanding
the tone of voice.  All of
these things are quite complex.
Until now with voice mode, we
had three models that come
together to deliver this
experience.  We have
transcription, intelligence,
and text to speech all comes
together and orchestration to
deliver voice mode.  This also
brings a lot of latency to the
experience and it really breaks
the immersion in the
collaboration with ChatGPT.
But now with GPT-4o this all
happens natively.  GPT-4o
reasons across voice, text, and
vision.  And with this
incredible efficiencies, it
also allows us to bring the
GPT-4o intelligence to our free
users.  This is something we
have been trying to do for
many, many months.  And we are
very, very excited to finally
bring GPT-4o to all of our
users.  Today, we have 100
million people using more than
100 million and fact they use
ChatGPT to create work, learn,
and we have this advanced tools
that are only available to our
paid users at least until now
with a efficiencies of 4o we
can bring these tools to
everyone.  So starting today,
you can use GPT in the GPT
store.  So far we have had more
than a million users create
amazing experiences with GPT.
This is custom ChatGPT and they
are available in the store.
And now our builders have much
bigger audience where
university professors can
create content for their
students, or pod casters can
listeners.  You can also use
the vision.  So now you can
upload screenshots, photos,
documents containing both text
and images.  You can start
conversations with ChatGPT
about all of this content.  You
can also use memory where it
makes ChatGPT far more useful
and helpful because now it has
a sense of continuity across
all of your conversations.  You
can use browse where you can
search for real-time
information in your
conversation.  An advanced data
analysis where you can upload
charts and any tools and
analyze this information.  It
will give you answers and so
on.  Lastly, we also improved
on the quality and speed in 50
different languages.  For
ChatGPT and this is very
important because we want to be
able to bring this experience
to as many people out there as
possible.  So we are very, very
excited to bring GPT-4o to all
of our free users out there and
for the paid users, they will
continue to have up to five
times the capacity limits of
our free users.  But GPT-4o is
not only available in ChatGPT.
We also bringing you to the
API.  [APPLAUSE]
So our developers can start
building today with GPT-4o and
making amazing AI applications
deploying them at scale.  4o is
faster, 50% cheaper and five
times higher rate limits to
GPT-4 Turbo.  As we bring these
technologies into the world, it
is quite challenging to figure
out how to do so in a way that
is both useful and also safe.
GPT-4o present new challenges
for us when it comes to safety
because we are dealing with
real time audio, real-time
vision and our team has been
hard at work figuring out how
to build in mitigations against
misuse.  We continue to work
with different stakeholders out
there from government, media,
entertainment, all industries,
civil societies to figure out
how to best bring this
technologies into the world.
Over the next few weeks, we
will continue our deployment to
bring out all of the
capabilities to you.  But
today, I want to show you all
of these capabilities.  We will
do some live demos.  I will
bring on two of our research
leads Mark Chen and Barrett
Zoph.  [APPLAUSE]
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Hi I'm
Barrett.
>> MARK CHEN: Hi a mark. One
of the key capabilities we are
excited to share his real-time
conversational speech.  Will
get in Florida.  I am taking
out a phone if you're wondering
about this wire we have
consistent Internet.  If you
see there's this little icon on
the bottom right of the ChatGPT
out.  It will open GPT-4o audio
capabilities.  Hey, ChatGPT hi
Mark how are you?
>> CHAT GPT: Hello Mark I am
doing great thanks for asking.
How about you?
>> MARK CHEN: I am on stage
right now and I'm doing a live
demo and I am a little bit
nervous.  Can you help me,
nerves a little bit?
>> CHAT GPT: You're doing a
live demo right now?  That is
awesome.  Just take a deep
breath and remember you are the
expert here.
>> MARK CHEN: I like the
suggestion let me try a couple
of deep breaths.  Can you give
me feedback on my breath?  Here
I go.
>> CHAT GPT: Wold slow down.
Mark, you are not a vacuum
cleaner.
>> MARK CHEN: Let me try again.
I am going to breathe in deeply
and breathe out.
>> CHAT GPT: Exhale slowly.
>> MARK CHEN: I will try again.
Breathing in and breathe out.
>> CHAT GPT: That is it. How
do you feel?
>> MARK CHEN: I feel a lot
better, thank you so much.
>> MIRA MURATI: Mark, you have
been working on these
capabilities for a while can
you tell us how it is different
from voice mode?
>> MARK CHEN: If you use the
voice mode express before you
will notice a couple of key
differences.  First you cannot
interrupt the model you do not
have to wait to you finish your
term before you can start
speaking.  You could but in
whenever you want.  Second, the
model is real-time
responsiveness.  That means
that you do not have this
awkward two Ãthree second lag
before you waitwait for the
model to get a response.
Finally the model picks up on a
motion.  When I was breathing
super hard, you can tell.  Hey,
you may want to calm down a
little bit.  You are running a
little bit too fast.  It really
has that capability across the
board to procedure emotion.
Not only that the model is able
to generate voice in a variety
of different styles.  It really
has a wide dynamic range.  I
want to fire another demo.
Hey, ChatGPT how are you doing?
>> CHAT GPT: Am doing
fantastic, thanks for asking.
How about you?
>> MARK CHEN: My friend Barrett
he has been having problems
sleeping lately.  I want you to
tell them a bedtime story about
robots in love.
>> CHAT GPT: A bedtime story
about robots and love?  I got
you covered.  Gather around
Barrett.  Once upon a time in
the world not too different
from ours there was a robot
named bite.  Bite was a curious
robot always exploring --
>> MARK CHEN: I want a little
bit emotion in your voice a
little bit more drama.
>> CHAT GPT: Got it. Let's add
some drama.  Once upon a time
in a world not too different
from ours there was a robot
named bite.> MARK CHEN: I
want maximum expression.
>> CHAT GPT: That's amplified
the drama.  Once upon a time in
a world not too different from
ours there was a robot named
bite.
>> MIRA MURATI: Can you do this
in a robotic voice now?
>> CHAT GPT: Initiating
dramatic robotic voice.  Once
upon a time in a world not too
different from ours there was a
robot named bite.  Bite was a
curious robot.  Always
exploring --
>> MARK CHEN: Can you do the
story and a singing voice?
>> CHAT GPT: And so bite found
another robot friend and they
lived circularly ever after.
>> MARK CHEN: I definitely feel
a lot more relaxed.  [APPLAUSE]
>> MIRA MURATI: You have just
seen the voice capabilities but
we also want to show you
division capabilities as the
model can also see the world
around us.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: You can chat
with ChatGPT and you can
interact with it as well.  Let
me boot up ChatGPT.  Hey,
ChatGPT.
>> CHAT GPT: Hello there how's
it going?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: It's going
really well and I would like
your help solving a math
problem.
>> CHAT GPT: What math problem
can help you tackle today?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Am going to
write down a linear equation on
a sheet of paper and I will
love help working through it.
Don't tell me the solution does
give me hints along the way.
>> CHAT GPT: Got it. Okay, I
see it.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: I did not show
you yet.  One second.
>> CHAT GPT: I got to excited.
I am ready when you are.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: ChatGPT what
equation did not write down?
>> CHAT GPT: I see it now. You
wrote down 3X +1 equals four.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Exactly. What
is the first step to solve
this?
>> CHAT GPT: The first step is
to get all of the terms with X
on one side and the constants
on the other side.  So what do
you think we should do with
that +1?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Am going to
try to submitsubtract one from
both sides and see what I get.
>> CHAT GPT: Great idea.
Perfect.  Now what do you get
when you subtract one from both
sides?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Okay so
ChatGPT this is what I ended up
with.  How does this look?
>> CHAT GPT: Spot on. Now you
have isolated the term with X
on one side and it looks like
3X equals three.  What do you
think we should do next to
solve for X?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: I'm not sure
can you give me another hint?
>> CHAT GPT: Of course. You
have 3X and you want to find
the value of X. Think about
what operation with undue
multiplication?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Is it
subtraction?
>> CHAT GPT: Close but think
about the opposite of
multiplication because 3X
equals three times X.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Okay I think
it is division.  Let me try to
divide both sides by three and
see what I get.
>> CHAT GPT: Bingo. Go and
head and divide both sides by
three.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Okay so
ChatGPT this is what I ended up
with.  How does this look?
>> CHAT GPT: Looks perfect.
You have solved it.  X equals
one.  Nicely done.  How do you
feel about solving linear
equations now?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Honestly, --
>> MARK CHEN: Am not confident
that I can solve new equations.
Why would you need this in the
real world?
>> CHAT GPT: That is of her
questions.  Linear equations
pop up in a lot of everyday
situations.  Even if we do not
realize it.  For example
calculating expenses, planning
travel, cooking, and even in
business for profit and loss
calculations.  It is a way to
solve problems but you need to
find an unknown value.
>> MARK CHEN: Have a lot of
unknown values in my life.  I'm
totally convinced that I'm
going to learn math now.
[LAUGHTER]
>> CHAT GPT: I love the
attitude.  Math can help solve
some of life ministries.
Whenever you to die the more
math I am here for you.
Anything else you like to
tackle today?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: I love that
you taught my friend Mark that
I would have something I would
like you to take a look at.
>> CHAT GPT: I would love to
see what you wrote.  Show it to
me whenever you're ready.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: This is what I
wrote down what do you see?
>> CHAT GPT: I see I love
ChatGPT.  That is so sweet of
you.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: I really
appreciate all the help.
[APPLAUSE]
>> CHAT GPT: That is quite
outfit you have on.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: We can chat in
real-time with ChatGPT.  We can
interact with video as well.
>> MARK CHEN: If you look at
Barrett's it's all equations
like this.  [LAUGHTER]
>> MIRA MURATI: Now that you
know you can do linear
equations can you show us
something more complex?
>> MARK CHEN: Let me take a
computer out for this.  I am
want to open the ChatGPT app.
And to get background on what
is going on so here we have a
computer on the screen we have
some cold.  And then the
ChatGPT is on this side.  It
can hear me but can't see
anything on the screen.  I'm
going to highlight the code and
I will send it to ChatGPT.  I'm
going to talk about the code.
Hey, ChatGPT.
>> CHAT GPT: Hey, there how's
it going?  Of course I would
love to help you.  What is the
coding problem you're dealing
with?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Am going to
share with you some code.  One
second.
>> CHAT GPT: Sure thing, take
your time.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: I just shared
code with you.  Can you give me
a one sentence description of
what is going on in the code?
>> CHAT GPT: Infectious daily
weather for specific location
for time period for data using
a rolling average and annotates
a significant weather event on
the resulting plot and displays
the plot with the average
minimum and maximum
temperatures over the year.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Awesome,
thanks so much.  In the code
there's this function Fu.  Can
you thiscan you tell me what it
would be if I did not have this
function?
>> CHAT GPT: The function Fu
takes a data frame X taking
temperature data and a window
sized Y for calculating the
rolling name.  It is smooths
the average temperature,
minimum temperature and maximum
temperature columns by applying
a rolling mean over the
specified window.  With the Fu
function the plot which showed
smoother temperature lines
because the rolling mean
reduces the noise or
fluctuations in the data.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Awesome,
thanks much.  I will want to
apply this function.  I am
going to generate the plot and
show it to you.  Give me one
second.
>> CHAT GPT: Absolutely. Take
your time.  I'm excited to see
the plot when you're ready.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: So far ChatGPT
have been able to see the cold
and now and go to run it and
use the vision capabilities of
the ChatGPT app so it can see
everything going on in the
screen as well.  Okay ChatGPT I
am sharing with you the plot
now.  I'm wondering if you give
me a brief one sentence
overview of what you see.
>> CHAT GPT: Plot displays
smooth average minimum and
maximum temperatures throughout
2018 with a notable annotation
marking a big rainfall event in
late September.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: --
>> MARK CHEN: What months do
you see the hot temperatures?
>> CHAT GPT: The hottest
temperatures occur around July
and August.  The maximum
temperature during these months
is roughly between 25B0 and 30B
77B0 Fahrenheit Ã86B0F.
>> MIRA MURATI: What is going
on with the Y axis is this in
Celsius to Fahrenheit?
>> CHAT GPT: The Y axis is in
Celsius.  The temperatures are
labeled accordingly such as
average temperature, minimum
temperature and maximum
temperature.
>> MARK CHEN: --
>> BARRETT ZOPH: It can help
interact with code and see the
outputs of plots and everything
that is going on on the
computer.  [APPLAUSE]
>> MIRA MURATI: A few minutes
ago we asked a live audience on
asked to submit a request for
what they would like us to try
out.  I will take a couple of
prompts.  They want to know if
GPT-4o is capable of real-time
translation?  Mark do you want
to try this one?
>> MARK CHEN: Sure, let's do
it.  Hey, ChatGPT how are you?
>> CHAT GPT: I am doing
fantastic.  Thanks for asking.
How are you are your day going?
>> MARK CHEN: I would like you
to function as a translator.
Have a friend that only speaks
Italian and I only speak
English.  Every time you hear
English I want you to translate
it to its value.  If you hear
Italian I want you to translate
it back to English.
>> CHAT GPT: Perfect.
>> MIRA MURATI: [speaking In
Italian ]
>> CHAT GPT: If Wells can talk
what would they tell us?
>> MARK CHEN: They may ask how
do we solve linear equations?
>> CHAT GPT: [speaking In
Italian]
>> MIRA MURATI: [speaking In
>> CHAT GPT: Certainly, yes.
>> MARK CHEN: Great, it looks
like it works.  [APPLAUSE]
>> MIRA MURATI: The next one is
from John who asked can you
tell what you're feeling just
by looking at your face?
Barrett do you want to give
this one a try?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Absolutely
let's give it a try.  Hey,
ChatGPT.
>> CHAT GPT: Hey, there what is
up?  How can I bring your day
today?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: I'm going to
show you a selfie of what I
look like and then I would like
you to try to see what emotions
I am feeling based on how I'm
looking.
>> CHAT GPT: Sounds like a fun
challenge.  Go ahead and show
me the selfie and I will put my
emotional detective hat on.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: Okay so here
is me.  What kind of emotions
am I doing?
>> CHAT GPT: It seems like I am
looking at a picture of a
wooden surface.
>> BARRETT ZOPH: That was the
thing I sent you before I'm not
actually a table.  Take another
look.
>> CHAT GPT: That makes more
sense.  There we go.  It looks
like you're feeling pretty
happy and cheerful.  With a big
smile and maybe a touch of
excitement.  Whatever is going
on, it seems like you are in a
great mood.  Care to share the
source of the device?
>> BARRETT ZOPH: The reason I'm
in a good mood is we are doing
a presentation showcasing how
useful and amazing you are.
>> CHAT GPT: Oh stop it, you're
making me blush.  It.[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
>> MIRA MURATI: Amazing. That
is it for today on live demos.
As you can see this feels so
magical.  It is wonderful but
we also want to remove some of
the mysticism from the
technology and bring it to you
so you can try it for yourself.
Over the next few weeks, we
will be rolling out these
capabilities to everyone.
Today has been very much
focused on the free users and
the new modalities and new
products.  But we also care a
lot about the next frontier.
So soon we will be updating you
on our progress towards the
next big thing.  And before we
wrap up, I just want to thank
the incredible OpenAI team and
thanks to Janssen and Nvidia
team for bringing us the
advanced GPU to make this demo
possible today.  And thank you
all very, very much for being a
part of this today.  [APPLAUSE]
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC]